So the first structure is if, so this is
a, this, the, the if combined with else
allows you to test logic conditions, and
to let the r program do something, give,
whether or not, depending on whether
that conditions is true or false.
So if the condition is true then you do
something else you do something else.
That's the typical kind of construct.
The else part is optional, so
you could just have an if statement
to do something if something is true.
But you can have the else part if you
wanted to do something alternatively.
If you want to do more, there's more
than one possible type of condition you
can tick, you, you want to check.
You can say if, and then,
else, if and then, else.
else, if there can be any number of else,
if conditions in a constraint like this
and the else one has to be at the end.
So there are a couple of different ways
that you can formulate the if else
construct in r, it's a little, this is a
little bit different from other languages.
Case you haven't seen something like this.
So the first is pretty standard if x,
if the con,
if sorry if the symbol x is greater than
3 then you select, you set y equal to 10.
If it's not greater than 3
then you set y equal to 0.
So that's inside the if-else construct,
there's, there's an assignment of y
to a specific type of value depending
on what the value of 3, of x if.
But however in r you can do it
a different way you can say y is
equal to the entire if else construct.
So if x is greater than 3, 10 or
0 depending on whether that
conditions true or not.
So this is a valid formulation also.
Sometimes it's, it's,
it's useful to read this type of
writing because it, it allows you to
realize that the entire if else construct
is all about assigning a value to y.
So as I said before the else clause
is not really necessary you can
always test the condition and
do something and then do nothing if
that condition happens to be false.
So you can and you can just test
multiple conditions in a row if you want